Welcome to Vector for Position
and Movement! In this video we are going to be understanding what on Earth a
vector is and how we can be using it for position and movement, as well as adding and subtracting
and what that means in terms of position and basically finding
out where our character is and how they can find their way
home, and we're going to use vectors to calculate that path
home. So let's dive right in!
So what we would really like to be able to do, at this point, is
in the Update () method, to be able to update
the location, from the Start () method. However, it's very hard to
be able to do this without understanding the thing that ties these two methods together
and that is the class. Now to understand the class is a bit
of work, it's hard for beginners, but don't worry,
we're going to take it slowly and we're going to build it up bit by bit. So in actual
fact, what I want to do is take us a little bit back. Rather than going to the
Update location from home, because that requires us to understand
the class, I want to explain classes by first taking
a revisit of these first three steps. So at the
moment, our location is a float, so that means
it's a one dimensional location, i.e. we can say
that we are so many meters somewhere, right, in one direction.
But let's say our game wants to be two dimensional, so
we want to be able to say we are in some two dimensional space. Now,
how does that look? Well perhaps we are at the
X here, around here, and we've
got some reference point, some basically origin of our
two dimensional map, and that is this green point here. So
one way we can talk about this X point is by giving it coordinates.
Now what are coordinates? Well it's go along in basically
the right direction by X = or
3 in this case and up by 2, and this gives us
the coordinates of X. So you'll be familiar with this from math.
Now we've finally got the application for all of this, and this
is what we call a vector, and it's particularly a position
vector, because we're using it to define a position from the map
origin, which is this green point. And we use a arrow,
usually, to denote vectors, so it tells us that we need to
go a certain direction for a certain distance. So
there's two ways, basically, of giving a coordinate.
Right, the first one is to give these two values,
the longitude and latitude. The other way would be to say start from the origin,
and then, take a so many degree heading and go for so many
meters. So that is what the vector is essentially doing, it's called direction
and it's got an amount, a distance
to go in that heading. So these are vectors and that's how
we navigate around by vectors. And what we would like
to be able to say is, you know, be able to put together multiple
vectors, to basically denote a path. So we could say,
go in this heading for so many meters, and then, once you reach that
location, so that's the location at the end of this arrow, you can
go in a different heading for so many more meters. And that is
how we can add two vectors together, and the result is
if we had gone along this heading for so many meters.
And you can see, it's very graphical how vectors
add together. So similarly, you can do
subtraction. So if we've got a vector A, which goes in this direction,
and then, what we can do is, say from previously
you saw our vector B went in this direction, we can say negative
vector B, which basically says go in the same
direction but go backwards, rather than forwards. So if we went
forwards we'd end up down here somewhere, but because we went backwards, we end up up
here. And then, our resulting vector
can be basically found as A - B
and it's up here. So this is what vectors are, they are
both a way of defining position but also as a way of
defining direction and movement. So vectors can represent both movement
and position, at the same time. So they're position, when you think about
an origin and it's a way, essentially movement of getting to that point,
and they're movement when we compose them together like this.
So we want to find a path to home. Basically,
if our home and our location are both position
vectors. So we've got a Player and we've got Home
and we've got some origin on the map. So our
Home is not at the origin on the map, it's somewhere else and the Player is somewhere else, as well.
What we want to do is, find the path or the movement
that takes us from the Player's position to the Home location,
and we can do this using addition and subtraction of vectors. So
what should that path be? That is the question!
Use your knowledge of vector math! So we have just revised and perhaps for the first time
seen in these slides. Remember you can always find these slides by going to the lecture
resources and just taking a look over it. But don't look at the answer,
which will be in a followup slide. And hint, you only need to use addition and
subtraction, nothing more than that. So share your thoughts in the discussions,
regarding this, you know, maybe some diagrams you drew out, in order to help
you understand. OK, so pause the video here
and have a go! Welcome
back! So I hope you've all had a go! It's really important to try these
challenges out. Even if you don't manage, not managing is just fine,
you can always come and watch the answers. But the important thing is that you try,
because then if you haven't tired you won't understand the solution as
well as someone who has tried, and it won't stick in your brain as well. So that is why we do
these challenges. So this is the answer! If I want to go
the distance from home, I need to go along the minus
Player direction. So we need to go backwards along that Player direction and then
forwards along the Home direction, and you can see how these two vectors
give us this path here, that I was showing you before.
So this Distance from Home or this path to Home is what ends up
being given. So this was a short lecture showing you an introduction, a recap
to vectors and how they are applicable to our location and our
homeLocation. So we are now in the next video
going to show you how we can store more complex things in
variables, rather than just floats and strings! We're going to show you how you can store things like
vectors! So I'll see you there!